[core] Update oom docs to reflect latest policy (#32219)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/ray-core/scheduling/ray-oom-prevention.rst

The memory monitor is a component that runs within the :ref:`raylet <whitepaper>` process on each node. It periodically checks the memory usage, which includes the worker heap, the object store, and the raylet as described in :ref:`memory management <memory>`. If the combined usage exceeds a configurable threshold the raylet will kill a task or actor process to free up memory and prevent Ray from failing.

It is available on Linux and is tested with Ray running inside a container that is using cgroup v1. If you encounter issues when running the memory monitor outside of a container or the container is using cgroup v2, please :ref:`file an issue or post a question <oom-questions>`.

How do I disable the memory monitor?
--------------------------------------

> The memory monitor is enabled by default and can be disabled by setting the environment variable ``RAY_memory_monitor_refresh_ms`` to zero when Ray starts. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The memory monitor is enabled by default and can be disabled by setting the environment variable ``RAY_memory_monitor_refresh_ms`` to zero when Ray starts (e.g., RAY_memory_monitor_refresh_ms=0 ray start ...). 
```

- ``RAY_memory_usage_threshold (float, defaults to 0.95)`` is the threshold when the node is beyond the memory
  capacity. If the memory usage is above this value and the free space is
  below min_memory_free_bytes then it will start killing processes to free up space. Ranges from [0, 1].
  capacity. If the memory usage is above this fraction it will start killing processes to free up memory. Ranges from [0, 1].

- ``RAY_task_oom_retries (int, defaults to 15):`` The number of retries for the task or actor when
  it fails due to the process being killed by the memory monitor.
  If the task or actor is not retriable then this value is not used. This value is used
  only when the process is killed by the memory monitor, and the retry counter of the
  task or actor (:ref:`max_retries <task-fault-tolerance>` or :ref:`max_restarts <actor-fault-tolerance>`) is used when it fails 
  in other ways. If the process is killed by the operating system OOM killer it will use the task retry and not ``task_oom_retries``.

>   It will retry indefinitely if this value is set to -1.

Reviewer: I like that the doc is much simpler now :)

> When a task or actor is killed by the memory monitor it will be retried with exponential backoff. The retry delay is calculated as

Reviewer: Maybe just say we are using exponential backoff?

The first ``retry_attempt`` will be delayed by 1 second. There is a cap on the maximum delay, which is 60 seconds.

> This retry is applied only when the worker is killed by the memory monitor. Otherwise, when the worker dies, it uses :ref:`max_retries <task-fault-tolerance>`, or :ref:`max_restarts <actor-fault-tolerance>` and :ref:`max_task_retries <actor-fault-tolerance>` depending on whether it is a task or actor.

Reviewer: How many times is it retried when things are OOM killed? (infinite)? Can you mention that?

> This retry is applied only when the worker is killed by the memory monitor. Otherwise, when the worker dies, it uses :ref:`max_retries <task-fault-tolerance>`, or :ref:`max_restarts <actor-fault-tolerance>` and :ref:`max_task_retries <actor-fault-tolerance>` depending on whether it is a task or actor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This retry is applied only when the worker is killed by the memory monitor. For other types of failures (e.g., node failure), it uses :ref:`max_retries <task-fault-tolerance>`, or :ref:`max_restarts <actor-fault-tolerance>` and :ref:`max_task_retries <actor-fault-tolerance>` depending on whether it is a task or actor.
```

Worker killing policy
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The memory monitor will ensure liveness by having at least one task or actor execute for each caller. If the last task of a caller is killed then it will fail the workload. Refer to :ref:`how to address memory issues <addressing-memory-issues>` on how to adjust the workload to make it pass when this happens.

Reviewer: Consider adding some code example (it is not easy for me to understand what this means).

Reviewer: ah I found you have the one below...

When a worker needs to be killed, the policy first prioritizes tasks that are retriable, i.e. when ``max_retries`` or ``max_restarts`` is > 0. This is done to minimize workload failure.

.. note::

>     Actors by default are not retriable since :ref:`max_restarts <actor-fault-tolerance>` defaults to 0, therefore tasks are preferred to actors when it comes to what gets killed first. Also, actors will retry based on its ``max_restarts`` settings, even when it is killed by the memory monitor.

Reviewer: > actors will retry based on its ``max_restarts`` settings, even when it is killed by the memory monitor.

Bit confused about what this means. So tasks OOM retry is not based on max_retries, but actors are based on `max_restarts`?

Reviewer: Maybe it is easier to understand if you have some table or bullet points to compare actor/task policy difference

> When there are multiple callers it will kill a task from the caller with the most number of running tasks. This is done to ensure fairness and allow each caller to make progress.

Reviewer: This is also not very easy to understand for me. Maybe also add a simple example?

How do I disable the memory monitor?
--------------------------------------

The memory monitor is enabled by default and can be disabled by setting the environment variable ``RAY_memory_monitor_refresh_ms`` to zero when Ray starts (e.g., RAY_memory_monitor_refresh_ms=0 ray start ...). 

How do I configure the memory monitor?
--------------------------------------

The memory monitor is controlled by the following environment variables:

- ``RAY_memory_monitor_refresh_ms (int, defaults to 250)`` is the interval to check memory usage and kill tasks or actors if needed. Task killing is disabled when this value is 0. The memory monitor selects and kills one task at a time and waits for it to be killed before choosing another one, regardless of how frequent the memory monitor runs.

- ``RAY_memory_usage_threshold (float, defaults to 0.95)`` is the threshold when the node is beyond the memory
  capacity. If the memory usage is above this fraction it will start killing processes to free up memory. Ranges from [0, 1].

Using the Memory Monitor
------------------------

Retry policy
~~~~~~~~~~~~

> When a task or actor is killed by the memory monitor it will be retried with exponential backoff. There is a cap on the retry delay, which is 60 seconds. There is no limit to the number of retries when the task is killed by the memory monitor. For other types of failures (e.g., node failure), it uses :ref:`max_retries <task-fault-tolerance>`, or :ref:`max_restarts <actor-fault-tolerance>` and :ref:`max_task_retries <actor-fault-tolerance>` depending on whether it is a task or actor.

Reviewer: > There is no limit to the number of retries when the task is killed by the memory monitor

What about

If tasks are killed by the memory monitor, it **retries infinitely** (not respecting max_retires <link>). If actors are killed by memory monitor, it **doesn't** recreates the actor infinitely (It respects `max_restarts` <link to API> which is 0 by default).

Reviewer: we may not even need warning below if we write this way?

Worker killing policy
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The memory monitor will ensure liveness by having at least one task or actor execute for each caller. If the last task of a caller is killed then it will fail the workload. Refer to :ref:`how to address memory issues <addressing-memory-issues>` on how to adjust the workload to make it pass when this happens. Refer to the :ref:`code example below <last-task-example>` for how this works.

Reviewer 2: It doesn't apply to actors right?

Author: It might, if max_restarts > 0

I think i put a note in another section to clarify actors won't retry by default, so the way we implemented non-retriable actors belonging to a separate group could be treated as implementation detail?

Author: By default , it won't, so we have a note below this paragraph:

But let me know if it doesn't make sense

![Screen Shot 2023-02-08 at 4 40 50 PM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/22830327/217684928-5ab675fb-8fa4-42b7-a535-ba792341788c.png)

Reviewer 2: It's a bit ambiguous reading, how about this rewording instead?

```
The memory monitor avoids infinite loops of task retries by ensuring at least one task is able to run for each caller on each node. If it is unable to ensure this, the task will be failed. Note that this is only an issue for tasks, since the memory monitor will not indefinitely retry actors.

```
